README.adoc, before:

= Jakarta EE Tutorial UI

// External URLs:
:url-antora-ui-default: https://gitlab.com/antora/antora-ui-default
:url-git: https://git-scm.com
:url-git-dl: {url-git}/downloads
:url-gulp: http://gulpjs.com
:url-opendevise: https://opendevise.com
:url-nodejs: https://nodejs.org
:url-nvm: https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm
:url-nvm-install: {url-nvm}#installing-and-updating
:url-jakartaee-tutorial-ui: https://github.com/virtua-tech/jakartaee-tutorial-ui
:url-jakartaee-tutorial-ui-actions: {url-jakartaee-tutorial-ui}/actions
:url-jakartaee-tutorial-ui-release: {url-jakartaee-tutorial-ui}/releases/tag/latest
:url-jakartaee-tutorial-playbook: https://github.com/virtua-tech/jakartaee-tutorial-playbook
:url-jakartaee-tutorial-playbook-live: https://virtua-tech.github.io/jakartaee-tutorial-playbook/

This project is forked from {url-antora-ui-default}[Antora Default UI] as per their instructions.

== Prerequisites

To build this project and preview it locally, you need the following software on your computer:

* {url-git}[git] (command: `git`)
* {url-nodejs}[Node.js] (commands: `node` and `npm`)
* {url-gulp}[Gulp CLI] (command: `gulp`)

=== git

First, make sure you have Git installed.

 $ git --version

If not, {url-git-dl}[download and install] the Git package for your system.

=== Node.js

Next, make sure that you have Node.js installed (which also provides `npm`).

 $ node --version

If this command fails with an error, you don't have Node.js installed.
While you can install Node.js from the official packages, we strongly recommend that you use {url-nvm}[nvm] (Node Version Manager) to manage your Node.js installation(s).
Follow the {url-nvm-install}[nvm installation instructions] to set up nvm on your machine.

Once you've installed nvm, open a new terminal and `cd` into the project folder and install Node.js using the following command:

 $ nvm install

This will basically install the Node.js version defined in the `.nvmrc` file of this project.

=== Gulp CLI

You'll need the Gulp command-line interface (CLI) to run the build.
The Gulp CLI package provides the `gulp` command.
You can install the Gulp CLI globally using the following command:

 $ npm install -g gulp-cli

Verify the Gulp CLI is installed by running:

 $ gulp --version

Now that you have the prerequisites installed, you can build the project.

== Build the project

Use `npm` to install the project's dependencies inside the project.
In your terminal, `cd` into the project folder and execute the following command:

 $ npm install

This command installs the dependencies listed in [.path]_package.json_ into the [.path]_node_modules/_ folder inside the project.
This folder does not get included in the UI bundle and should _not_ be committed to the source control repository.

== Preview the UI

The files in the [.path]_preview-src/_ folder provide the sample content that allow you to see the UI in action.
In this folder, you'll primarily find pages written in AsciiDoc.
These pages provide a representative sample and kitchen sink of content from the real site.

To build the UI and preview it in a local web server, run the `preview` command:

 $ gulp preview

You'll see a URL listed in the output of this command:

....
[12:00:00] Starting server...
[12:00:00] Server started http://localhost:5252
[12:00:00] Running server
....

Navigate to this URL to preview the site locally.

While this command is running, any changes you make to the source files will be instantly reflected in the browser.
This works by monitoring the project for changes, running the `preview:build` task if a change is detected, and sending the updates to the browser.

Press kbd:[Ctrl+C] to stop the preview server and end the continuous build.

== Deploy the project

This is already done automatically by {url-jakartaee-tutorial-ui-actions}[Github Actions].
It will generate an UI bundle tagged `latest` which is available as {url-jakartaee-tutorial-ui-release}[Latest UI bundle].
This bundle is in turn already referenced as `ui.bundle.url` property in `antora-playbook.yml` configuration file of {url-jakartaee-tutorial-playbook}[Jakarta EE Tutorial Playbook].

The live site can be found at {url-jakartaee-tutorial-playbook-live}[{url-jakartaee-tutorial-playbook-live}].

Commit message:

JETUT-117: add back packaging instructions to README, specifically for author mode

README.adoc, after:

= Jakarta EE Tutorial UI

// External URLs:
:url-antora-ui-default: https://gitlab.com/antora/antora-ui-default
:url-git: https://git-scm.com
:url-git-dl: {url-git}/downloads
:url-gulp: http://gulpjs.com
:url-opendevise: https://opendevise.com
:url-nodejs: https://nodejs.org
:url-nvm: https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm
:url-nvm-install: {url-nvm}#installing-and-updating
:url-jakartaee-tutorial-ui: https://github.com/virtua-tech/jakartaee-tutorial-ui
:url-jakartaee-tutorial-ui-actions: {url-jakartaee-tutorial-ui}/actions
:url-jakartaee-tutorial-ui-release: {url-jakartaee-tutorial-ui}/releases/tag/latest
:url-jakartaee-tutorial-playbook: https://github.com/virtua-tech/jakartaee-tutorial-playbook
:url-jakartaee-tutorial-playbook-live: https://virtua-tech.github.io/jakartaee-tutorial-playbook/

This project is forked from {url-antora-ui-default}[Antora Default UI] as per their instructions.

== Prerequisites

To build this project and preview it locally, you need the following software on your computer:

* {url-git}[git] (command: `git`)
* {url-nodejs}[Node.js] (commands: `node` and `npm`)
* {url-gulp}[Gulp CLI] (command: `gulp`)

=== git

First, make sure you have Git installed.

 $ git --version

If not, {url-git-dl}[download and install] the Git package for your system.

=== Node.js

Next, make sure that you have Node.js installed (which also provides `npm`).

 $ node --version

If this command fails with an error, you don't have Node.js installed.
While you can install Node.js from the official packages, we strongly recommend that you use {url-nvm}[nvm] (Node Version Manager) to manage your Node.js installation(s).
Follow the {url-nvm-install}[nvm installation instructions] to set up nvm on your machine.

Once you've installed nvm, open a new terminal and `cd` into the project folder and install Node.js using the following command:

 $ nvm install

This will basically install the Node.js version defined in the `.nvmrc` file of this project.

=== Gulp CLI

You'll need the Gulp command-line interface (CLI) to run the build.
The Gulp CLI package provides the `gulp` command.
You can install the Gulp CLI globally using the following command:

 $ npm install -g gulp-cli

Verify the Gulp CLI is installed by running:

 $ gulp --version

Now that you have the prerequisites installed, you can build the project.

== Build the project

Use `npm` to install the project's dependencies inside the project.
In your terminal, `cd` into the project folder and execute the following command:

 $ npm install

This command installs the dependencies listed in [.path]_package.json_ into the [.path]_node_modules/_ folder inside the project.
This folder does not get included in the UI bundle and should _not_ be committed to the source control repository.

== Preview the UI

The files in the [.path]_preview-src/_ folder provide the sample content that allow you to see the UI in action.
In this folder, you'll primarily find pages written in AsciiDoc.
These pages provide a representative sample and kitchen sink of content from the real site.

To build the UI and preview it in a local web server, run the `preview` command:

 $ gulp preview

You'll see a URL listed in the output of this command:

....
[12:00:00] Starting server...
[12:00:00] Server started http://localhost:5252
[12:00:00] Running server
....

Navigate to this URL to preview the site locally.

While this command is running, any changes you make to the source files will be instantly reflected in the browser.
This works by monitoring the project for changes, running the `preview:build` task if a change is detected, and sending the updates to the browser.

Press kbd:[Ctrl+C] to stop the preview server and end the continuous build.

== Package the UI

If you need to package the UI so you can use it to generate the documentation site locally, run the following command:

 $ gulp bundle

If any errors are reported by lint, you'll need to fix them.

When the command completes successfully, the UI bundle will be available at [.path]_build/ui-bundle.zip_.
You can if necessary point Antora at this bundle using the `--ui-bundle-url` command-line option.
Or in `local-antora-playbook.yml` for Antora Author Mode, set the `ui.bundle.url` property to `../jakartaee-tutorial-ui/build/ui-bundle.zip`.

== Deploy the project

This is already done automatically by {url-jakartaee-tutorial-ui-actions}[Github Actions].
It will generate an UI bundle tagged `latest` which is available as {url-jakartaee-tutorial-ui-release}[Latest UI bundle].
This bundle is in turn already referenced as `ui.bundle.url` property in `antora-playbook.yml` configuration file of {url-jakartaee-tutorial-playbook}[Jakarta EE Tutorial Playbook].

The live site can be found at {url-jakartaee-tutorial-playbook-live}[{url-jakartaee-tutorial-playbook-live}].
